content/docs/apache-spark/01-introduction.md, before:

---
title: Introduction
weight: 1
menu: apache-spark
date: 2024-06-01
---

# Apache Spark

## Course Objectives

- Understand the fundamentals of Apache Spark.
- Build data processing applications using Apache Spark.
- Understand Apache Spark APIs (RDD, DataFrames, and Datasets).
- Optimize and tune Apache Spark applications.
- Build streaming applications using Apache Spark.
- Build scalable machine learning applications using Apache Spark MLlib.
- Deploy Apache Spark in production environments.

## Course References

- [Learning Spark, 2nd Edition](https://pages.databricks.com/rs/094-YMS-629/images/LearningSpark2.0.pdf) By Jules S. Damji, Brooke Wenig, Tathagata Das, Denny Lee.
- [Spark: The Definitive Guide](https://learning.oreilly.com/library/view/spark-the-definitive/9781491912201/) By Bill Chambers, Matei Zaharia.
- Random blog posts.

## Course Prerequisites

Before beginning this course, participants should have:

- Experience in programming using Python.
- Basic programming skills using shell.
- An understanding of MapReduce foundations and Hive. [Garage Education YouTube Playlist](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLxNoJq6k39G8Ak39PDC-oYvp6ZRvIn3Pa)


{{< youtube 58ULZD86iPo >}}

You can download the video by right clicking the link and chose save link as: [Download Video](https://garage-education.s3.amazonaws.com/spark-course/Ch.04-01-Introduction.mp4)

Commit message:

UPDATE: Added embedded video from our servers and cleaned up the apache course pages

content/docs/apache-spark/01-introduction.md, after:

---
title: Course Introduction
weight: 1
menu: apache-spark
date: 2024-06-01
---

# Apache Spark

## Course Objectives

- Understand the fundamentals of Apache Spark.
- Build data processing applications using Apache Spark.
- Understand Apache Spark APIs (RDD, DataFrames, and Datasets).
- Optimize and tune Apache Spark applications.
- Build streaming applications using Apache Spark.
- Build scalable machine learning applications using Apache Spark MLlib.
- Deploy Apache Spark in production environments.

## Course References

- [Learning Spark, 2nd Edition](https://pages.databricks.com/rs/094-YMS-629/images/LearningSpark2.0.pdf) By Jules S. Damji, Brooke Wenig, Tathagata Das, Denny Lee.
- [Spark: The Definitive Guide](https://learning.oreilly.com/library/view/spark-the-definitive/9781491912201/) By Bill Chambers, Matei Zaharia.
- Random blog posts.

## Course Prerequisites

Before beginning this course, participants should have:

- Experience in programming using Python.
- Basic programming skills using shell.
- An understanding of MapReduce foundations and Hive. [Garage Education YouTube Playlist](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLxNoJq6k39G8Ak39PDC-oYvp6ZRvIn3Pa)

## Watch on Youtube

{{< youtube 58ULZD86iPo >}}

## Watch on our Servers

{{< video src="https://garage-education.s3.amazonaws.com/spark-course/Ch.04-01-Introduction.mp4" controls="yes" >}}

You can download the video by right clicking the link and chose save link as: [Download Video](https://garage-education.s3.amazonaws.com/spark-course/Ch.04-01-Introduction.mp4)
