content/docs/apache-spark/02-python-vs-scala.md, before:

---
title: Python Vs. Scala
weight: 2
menu: apache-spark
date: 2024-06-01
---

## Python vs Scala

### Python vs Scala

- Python is widely used with numerous tools and libraries available.
- Python is easier to learn than Scala; however, Scala might be more intuitive for those who prefer functional programming.
- Finding Python developers is generally easier for companies than finding Scala developers.
- Initially, Scala offered better performance in Apache Spark, but over time this advantage reduced, and now there's no big difference in speed.
- PySpark and Scala share the same Spark concepts, allowing for interchangeable use of examples from both languages without affecting learning.

### Attention!

> To Be a Spark Expert You Have to Be Able to Read a Little Scala Anyway!
> *Referenced from High Performance Spark, 2nd Edition, Ch.01*

### Spark's Codebase and Documentation

- The quality of Spark's documentation is inconsistent. *Referenced from High Performance Spark, 2nd Edition, Ch.01*
- Spark's codebase is very readable.
- Understanding the Spark codebase benefits **advanced users**.

### Understanding Spark Through Scala

- Scala helps you understand Spark deeply. *Referenced from High Performance Spark, 2nd Edition, Ch.01*
- Spark is written in Scala.
- To work with Spark's source code effectively, it's essential to understand (read) Scala.

### RDD and Scala's Influence

- Scala's influence is evident in Spark's Resilient Distributed Datasets (RDD). *Referenced from High Performance Spark, 2nd Edition, Ch.01*
- RDD methods are similar to Scala's collection tools.
- Functions like map, filter, and reduce are similar in both.
- Knowing Scala makes it easier to understand how RDDs work.

### Spark as a Functional Framework

- Spark uses functional programming principles.
- Concepts like immutability and lambda are key.
- Understanding functional programming helps in using Spark well. *Referenced from High Performance Spark, 2nd Edition, Ch.01*

{{< youtube WhgQsVKmlvE >}}

You can download the video by right clicking the link and chose save link as: [Download Video](https://garage-education.s3.amazonaws.com/spark-course/Ch.04-02-Python-Vs-Scala.mp4)

Commit message:

UPDATE: Added embedded video from our servers and cleaned up the apache course pages

content/docs/apache-spark/02-python-vs-scala.md, after:

---
title: Python Vs. Scala
weight: 2
menu: apache-spark
date: 2024-06-01
---

## Lesson objectives

In this lesson, we will explain the following topics:
- Compare the differences between Python and Scala in the context of Spark.
- Understand the performance implications of using Python vs. Scala.
- Learn about the advantages and disadvantages of each language for Spark development.

### Python vs Scala

- Python is widely used with numerous tools and libraries available.
- Python is easier to learn than Scala; however, Scala might be more intuitive for those who prefer functional programming.
- Finding Python developers is generally easier for companies than finding Scala developers.
- Initially, Scala offered better performance in Apache Spark, but over time this advantage reduced, and now there's no big difference in speed.
- PySpark and Scala share the same Spark concepts, allowing for interchangeable use of examples from both languages without affecting learning.

### Attention!

> To Be a Spark Expert You Have to Be Able to Read a Little Scala Anyway!
> *Referenced from High Performance Spark, 2nd Edition, Ch.01*

### Spark's Codebase and Documentation

- The quality of Spark's documentation is inconsistent. *Referenced from High Performance Spark, 2nd Edition, Ch.01*
- Spark's codebase is very readable.
- Understanding the Spark codebase benefits **advanced users**.

### Understanding Spark Through Scala

- Scala helps you understand Spark deeply. *Referenced from High Performance Spark, 2nd Edition, Ch.01*
- Spark is written in Scala.
- To work with Spark's source code effectively, it's essential to understand (read) Scala.

### RDD and Scala's Influence

- Scala's influence is evident in Spark's Resilient Distributed Datasets (RDD). *Referenced from High Performance Spark, 2nd Edition, Ch.01*
- RDD methods are similar to Scala's collection tools.
- Functions like map, filter, and reduce are similar in both.
- Knowing Scala makes it easier to understand how RDDs work.

### Spark as a Functional Framework

- Spark uses functional programming principles.
- Concepts like immutability and lambda are key.
- Understanding functional programming helps in using Spark well. *Referenced from High Performance Spark, 2nd Edition, Ch.01*

## Watch on Youtube

{{< youtube WhgQsVKmlvE >}}

## Watch on our Servers

{{< video src="https://garage-education.s3.amazonaws.com/spark-course/Ch.04-02-Python-Vs-Scala.mp4" controls="yes" >}}

You can download the videog the link and chose save link as: [Download Video](https://garage-education.s3.amazonaws.com/spark-course/Ch.04-02-Python-Vs-Scala.mp4)
