content/docs/apache-spark/04-about-databricks.md, before:

---
title: About Databricks
weight: 4
menu: apache-spark
date: 2024-06-01
---

## About Databricks

### About Databricks

- Databricks, founded by the early AMPlab team, joined the community to further develop Spark.
- The organization was founded to deliver a comprehensive analytics platform, streamlining Spark's application in big data processing and analytics.
- Databricks has bridged the gap between academic research and enterprise applications through its managed cloud service and significant contributions to the Spark project.

### Beyond Apache Spark

![Databricks Analytics Platform](../Figures/chapter-04/databricks_data_intelligence.png)
*Photo copied from [Datanami](https://www.datanami.com)*

### Do You Need Databricks to Work with Spark?

#### Do You Need Databricks to Work with Spark?

#### The answer is NO!

#### Databricks is one of the cloud options to run Apache Spark workload

### Do You Need Databricks to Work with Spark?

- Spark workloads can be run both on the Cloud and on-premise.
    - **Cloud:** Choose any preferred cloud provider, like AWS, GCP, Databricks, or Azure.
    - **On-Premise:** Deploy on YARN, Mesos, or Kubernetes.
    - **Serverless Platforms:** For efficient resource management, consider options like:
        - **AWS:** EMR Serverless or AWS Glue.
        - **GCP:** Dataproc.
        - **Azure:** Azure Synapse.
        - **Databricks:** Databricks analytics platform.

{{< youtube sDbu1uSkbOc >}}

You can download the video by right clicking the link and chose save link as: [Download Video](https://garage-education.s3.amazonaws.com/spark-course/Ch.04-04-About-Databricks.mp4)

Commit message:

UPDATE: Added embedded video from our servers and cleaned up the apache course pages

content/docs/apache-spark/04-about-databricks.md, after:

---
title: About Databricks
weight: 4
menu: apache-spark
date: 2024-06-01
---

## Lesson objectives

In this lesson, we will explain the following topics:
- Understand the role of Databricks in the Spark ecosystem.
- Learn about Databricks' contributions to Spark development and the community.
- Explore the capabilities of the Databricks analytics platform.

## About Databricks

- Databricks, founded by the early AMPlab team, joined the community to further develop Spark.
- The organization was founded to deliver a comprehensive analytics platform, streamlining Spark's application in big data processing and analytics.
- Databricks has bridged the gap between academic research and enterprise applications through its managed cloud service and significant contributions to the Spark project.

### Beyond Apache Spark

![Databricks Analytics Platform](../Figures/chapter-04/databricks_data_intelligence.png)
*Photo copied from [Datanami](https://www.datanami.com)*

### Do You Need Databricks to Work with Spark?

#### Do You Need Databricks to Work with Spark?

#### The answer is NO!

#### Databricks is one of the cloud options to run Apache Spark workload

### Do You Need Databricks to Work with Spark?

- Spark workloads can be run both on the Cloud and on-premise.
    - **Cloud:** Choose any preferred cloud provider, like AWS, GCP, Databricks, or Azure.
    - **On-Premise:** Deploy on YARN, Mesos, or Kubernetes.
    - **Serverless Platforms:** For efficient resource management, consider options like:
        - **AWS:** EMR Serverless or AWS Glue.
        - **GCP:** Dataproc.
        - **Azure:** Azure Synapse.
        - **Databricks:** Databricks analytics platform.

## Watch on Youtube

{{< youtube sDbu1uSkbOc >}}

## Watch on our Servers

{{< video src="https://garage-education.s3.amazonaws.com/spark-course/Ch.04-04-About-Databricks.mp4" controls="yes" >}}

You can download the videog the link and chose save link as: [Download Video](https://garage-education.s3.amazonaws.com/spark-course/Ch.04-04-About-Databricks.mp4)
