content/docs/apache-spark/13-spark-applications.md, before:

---
title: Spark Applications
weight: 13
menu: apache-spark
date: 2024-06-01
---

Here's the converted content to Markdown:

# Apache Spark Distributed Execution

## Spark Distributed Execution

- Spark Application.
- Spark driver.
- Spark session.
- Cluster manager.
- Spark executors.
- Deployment mode.
- Data partition.

## Spark Application

### Spark Distributed Execution: Spark Application

- A Spark application is a program designed for distributed data processing using Spark.
- It includes a driver program to run the main function and execute parallel operations on a cluster.
- The application divides processing tasks into smaller units called tasks, distributed across cluster nodes.
- Spark applications support various languages like Scala, Java, Python, and R.

### Spark Application

![Spark Application](../Figures/chapter-04/SparkCourse.drawio.jpg)
*Spark the definitive guide, Ch.02*

{{< youtube bvtKXbXfwmw >}}

You can download the video by right clicking the link and chose save link as: [Download Video](https://garage-education.s3.amazonaws.com/spark-course/Ch.04-13-Spark-Applications.mp4)

Commit message:

UPDATE: Added embedded video from our servers and cleaned up the apache course pages

content/docs/apache-spark/13-spark-applications.md, after:

---
title: Spark Applications
weight: 13
menu: apache-spark
date: 2024-06-01
---

## Lesson objectives

In this lesson, we will explain the following topics:
- Understand the components of a Spark application, including the driver and executors.
- Learn about the execution process of Spark applications in a distributed environment.
- Explore the different languages supported by Spark for application development.

# Apache Spark Distributed Execution

## Spark Distributed Execution

- Spark Application.
- Spark driver.
- Spark session.
- Cluster manager.
- Spark executors.
- Deployment mode.
- Data partition.

## Spark Application

### Spark Distributed Execution: Spark Application

- A Spark application is a program designed for distributed data processing using Spark.
- It includes a driver program to run the main function and execute parallel operations on a cluster.
- The application divides processing tasks into smaller units called tasks, distributed across cluster nodes.
- Spark applications support various languages like Scala, Java, Python, and R.

### Spark Application

![Spark Application](../Figures/chapter-04/SparkCourse.drawio.jpg)
*Spark the definitive guide, Ch.02*

## Watch on Youtube

{{< youtube bvtKXbXfwmw >}}

## Watch on our Servers

{{< video src="https://garage-education.s3.amazonaws.com/spark-course/Ch.04-13-Spark-Applications.mp4" controls="yes" >}}

You can download the videog the link and chose save link as: [Download Video](https://garage-education.s3.amazonaws.com/spark-course/Ch.04-13-Spark-Applications.mp4)
