content/docs/apache-spark/16-spark-cluster-manager.md, before:

---
title: Spark Cluster Manager
weight: 16
menu: apache-spark
date: 2024-06-01
---

Here's the converted content to Markdown:

## Cluster Manager

### Introduction to Spark Cluster Managers

- The cluster manager allocates resources for Spark applications.
- Supports several managers: Standalone, Hadoop YARN, Apache Mesos, and Kubernetes.

### Role of the Cluster Manager

- The Spark Driver and Executors do not exist in a void, and this is where the cluster manager comes in.
- The cluster manager is important for managing a cluster of machines intended to run Spark Applications.
- Maintains a `driver (or master)` and `worker` nodes, tied to **physical machines**.

### Cluster Manager Components

![A cluster driver and worker (no Spark Application yet).](../Figures/chapter-04/cluster_manager_processes.png)
*Figure 1: A cluster driver and worker (no Spark Application yet).*

### Execution of Spark Applications

- The user requests resources from the cluster manager to initiate Spark applications.
- The user configures the application to specify resources for the driver or only for executors.
- The cluster manager directly manages the machines during the execution of the application.

{{< youtube Ew51l2veVxE >}}

You can download the video by right clicking the link and chose save link as: [Download Video](https://garage-education.s3.amazonaws.com/spark-course/Ch.04-16-Spark-Cluster-Manager.mp4)

Commit message:

UPDATE: Added embedded video from our servers and cleaned up the apache course pages

content/docs/apache-spark/16-spark-cluster-manager.md, after:

---
title: Spark Cluster Manager
weight: 16
menu: apache-spark
date: 2024-06-01
---

## Lesson objectives

In this lesson, we will explain the following topics:
- Understand the role of the cluster manager in Spark applications.
- Learn about the different cluster managers supported by Spark, including Standalone, Hadoop YARN, Apache Mesos, and Kubernetes.
- Explore the resource allocation and management responsibilities of the cluster manager.

## Cluster Manager

### Introduction to Spark Cluster Managers

- The cluster manager allocates resources for Spark applications.
- Supports several managers: Standalone, Hadoop YARN, Apache Mesos, and Kubernetes.

### Role of the Cluster Manager

- The Spark Driver and Executors do not exist in a void, and this is where the cluster manager comes in.
- The cluster manager is important for managing a cluster of machines intended to run Spark Applications.
- Maintains a `driver (or master)` and `worker` nodes, tied to **physical machines**.

### Cluster Manager Components

![A cluster driver and worker (no Spark Application yet).](../Figures/chapter-04/cluster_manager_processes.png)
*Figure 1: A cluster driver and worker (no Spark Application yet).*

### Execution of Spark Applications

- The user requests resources from the cluster manager to initiate Spark applications.
- The user configures the application to specify resources for the driver or only for executors.
- The cluster manager directly manages the machines during the execution of the application.

## Watch on Youtube

{{< youtube Ew51l2veVxE >}}

## Watch on our Servers

{{< video src="https://garage-education.s3.amazonaws.com/spark-course/Ch.04-16-Spark-Cluster-Manager.mp4" controls="yes" >}}

You can download the videog the link and chose save link as: [Download Video](https://garage-education.s3.amazonaws.com/spark-course/Ch.04-16-Spark-Cluster-Manager.mp4)
