content/docs/apache-spark/_index.md, before:

---
title: Apache Spark
weight: 1
date: 2024-06-01

menu:
  spark:
    name: Apache Spark
    weight: 1
---

{{% steps %}}

### Ch.04-01: Introduction

In this live video, we will explain the following topics:
- Understand the course structure and objectives.
- Familiarize with the course references and resources.
- Learn about the prerequisites needed for the course.

[Go to lesson]({{< relref "docs/apache-spark/01-introduction" >}}) |
[Watch on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=58ULZD86iPo) |
[Download the video](https://garage-education.s3.amazonaws.com/spark-course/Ch.04-01-Introduction.mp4)

### Ch.04-02: Python Vs. Scala

In this live video, we will explain the following topics:
- Compare the differences between Python and Scala in the context of Spark.
- Understand the performance implications of using Python vs. Scala.
- Learn about the advantages and disadvantages of each language for Spark development.

[Go to lesson]({{< relref "docs/apache-spark/02-python-vs-scala" >}}) |
[Watch on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WhgQsVKmlvE)
[Download the video](https://garage-education.s3.amazonaws.com/spark-course/Ch.04-02-python-vs-scala.mp4)

### Ch.04-03: Introduction

In this live video, we will explain the following topics:
- Learn about the origin and development of Apache Spark.
- Understand the key milestones and contributions to the Spark project.
- Explore the unified engine design of Spark for large-scale distributed data processing.

[Go to lesson]({{< relref "docs/apache-spark/03-introduction" >}}) |
[Watch on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MiTOvM85WKk) |
[Download the video](https://garage-education.s3.amazonaws.com/spark-course/Ch.04-03-Introduction.mp4)

### Ch.04-04: About Databricks

In this live video, we will explain the following topics:
- Understand the role of Databricks in the Spark ecosystem.
- Learn about Databricks' contributions to Spark development and the community.
- Explore the capabilities of the Databricks analytics platform.

[Go to lesson]({{< relref "docs/apache-spark/04-about-databricks" >}}) |
[Watch on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDbu1uSkbOc) |
[Download the video](https://garage-education.s3.amazonaws.com/spark-course/Ch.04-04-About-Databricks.mp4)

### Ch.04-05: Spark In The Data Platforms

In this live video, we will explain the following topics:
- Understand the role of Spark in data platforms.
- Learn about the technical components of a data lake.
- Explore how Spark integrates with other big data technologies.

[Go to lesson]({{< relref "docs/apache-spark/05-spark-in-the-data-platforms" >}}) |
[Watch on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pGsAOLJ6nBg) |
[Download the video](https://garage-education.s3.amazonaws.com/spark-course/Ch.04-05-Spark-In-The-Data-Platforms.mp4)

### Ch.04-06: Running Spark

In this live video, we will explain the following topics:
- Learn the different methods for running Spark, including Databricks, local installations, and Docker.
- Understand the steps to set up and run Spark in various environments.
- Explore the benefits of using the Databricks Community Edition for learning and small projects.

[Go to lesson]({{< relref "docs/apache-spark/06-running-spark" >}}) |
[Watch on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4jNGSaBFzZk) |
[Download the video](https://garage-education.s3.amazonaws.com/spark-course/Ch.04-06-Running-Spark.mp4)

### Ch.04-07: Demo: Running Spark on Linux Ubuntu

In this live video, we will explain the following topics:
- Demonstrate the process of installing and running Spark on Linux Ubuntu.
- Understand the configuration steps required for Spark installation on Ubuntu.
- Explore the execution of Spark applications on a Linux environment.

[Go to lesson]({{< relref "docs/apache-spark/07-demo-running-spark-on-linux-ubuntu" >}}) |
[Watch on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Oz_3u_NIS2w) |
[Download the video](https://garage-education.s3.amazonaws.com/spark-course/Ch.04-07-Demo-Running-Spark-on-Linux-Ubuntu.mp4)

### Ch.04-08: Demo: Running Spark on MacOS

In this live video, we will explain the following topics:
- Demonstrate the process of installing and running Spark on macOS.
- Understand the configuration steps required for Spark installation on macOS.
- Explore the execution of Spark applications on a macOS environment.

[Go to lesson]({{< relref "docs/apache-spark/08-demo-running-spark-on-macos" >}}) |
[Watch on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JabcoTV8nJE) |
[Download the video](https://garage-education.s3.amazonaws.com/spark-course/Ch.04-08-Demo-Running-Spark-on-MacOS.mp4)

### Ch.04-09: Demo: Running Spark on Windows

In this live video, we will explain the following topics:
- Demonstrate the process of installing and running Spark on Windows.
- Understand the configuration steps required for Spark installation on Windows.
- Explore the execution of Spark applications on a Windows environment.

[Go to lesson]({{< relref "docs/apache-spark/09-demo-running-spark-on-windows" >}}) |
[Watch on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KYU_yq3ESXE) |
[Download the video](https://garage-education.s3.amazonaws.com/spark-course/Ch.04-09-Demo-Running-Spark-on-Windows.mp4)

### Ch.04-11: From Map Reduce To Spark

In this live video, we will explain the following topics:
- Understand the basic idea and stages of MapReduce.
- Learn about the limitations of MapReduce and the motivation for Spark.
- Explore the improvements offered by Spark over MapReduce, including in-memory processing and optimized execution.

[Go to lesson]({{< relref "docs/apache-spark/11-from-map-reduce-to-spark" >}}) |
[Watch on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uMf8dCcQoBQ) |
[Download the video](https://garage-education.s3.amazonaws.com/spark-course/Ch.04-11-From-Map-Reduce-To-Spark.mp4)

### Ch.04-12: Spark Characteristics

In this live video, we will explain the following topics:
- Learn about the key characteristics of Spark, including speed, ease of use, modularity, and extensibility.
- Understand how Spark achieves its high performance through hardware utilization, DAG scheduling, and the Tungsten execution engine.
- Explore the benefits of Spark's modular and extensible architecture.

[Go to lesson]({{< relref "docs/apache-spark/12-spark-characteristics" >}}) |
[Watch on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KNHZoKgAqXw) |
[Download the video](https://garage-education.s3.amazonaws.com/spark-course/Ch.04-12-Spark-Characteristics.mp4)

### Ch.04-13: Spark Applications

In this live video, we will explain the following topics:
- Understand the components of a Spark application, including the driver and executors.
- Learn about the execution process of Spark applications in a distributed environment.
- Explore the different languages supported by Spark for application development.

[Go to lesson]({{< relref "docs/apache-spark/13-spark-applications" >}}) |
[Watch on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bvtKXbXfwmw) |
[Download the video](https://garage-education.s3.amazonaws.com/spark-course/Ch.04-13-Spark-Applications.mp4)

### Ch.04-14: Spark Driver

In this live video, we will explain the following topics:
- Learn about the role and key functions of the Spark driver.
- Understand how the driver schedules and distributes tasks to executors.
- Explore the communication and resource management responsibilities of the driver.

[Go to lesson]({{< relref "docs/apache-spark/14-spark-driver" >}}) |
[Watch on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ODcbq13Y1F0) |
[Download the video](https://garage-education.s3.amazonaws.com/spark-course/Ch.04-14-Spark-Driver.mp4)

### Ch.04-15: Spark Session

In this live video, we will explain the following topics:
- Understand the concept and purpose of a SparkSession.
- Learn how to create and use a SparkSession in a Spark application.
- Explore the benefits of SparkSession for simplifying Spark interactions and configurations.

[Go to lesson]({{< relref "docs/apache-spark/15-spark-session" >}}) |
[Watch on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ABomIh_Z0cQ) |
[Download the video](https://garage-education.s3.amazonaws.com/spark-course/Ch.04-15-Spark-Session.mp4)

### Ch.04-16: Spark Cluster Manager

In this live video, we will explain the following topics:
- Understand the role of the cluster manager in Spark applications.
- Learn about the different cluster managers supported by Spark, including Standalone, Hadoop YARN, Apache Mesos, and Kubernetes.
- Explore the resource allocation and management responsibilities of the cluster manager.

[Go to lesson]({{< relref "docs/apache-spark/16-spark-cluster-manager" >}}) |
[Watch on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ew51l2veVxE) |
[Download the video](https://garage-education.s3.amazonaws.com/spark-course/Ch.04-16-Spark-Cluster-Manager.mp4)

### Ch.04-17: Spark Execution Mode

In this live video, we will explain the following topics:
- Learn about the different execution modes in Spark, including cluster mode, client mode, and local mode.
- Understand the differences and use cases for each execution mode.
- Explore how to configure and execute Spark applications in various modes.

[Go to lesson]({{< relref "docs/apache-spark/17-spark-execution-mode" >}}) |
[Watch on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q5EH1rHIdBM) |
[Download the video](https://garage-education.s3.amazonaws.com/spark-course/Ch.04-17-Spark-Execution-Mode.mp4)

### Ch.04-18: Spark Executors

In this live video, we will explain the following topics:
- Understand the role and functions of Spark executors.
- Learn how executors execute tasks and communicate results.
- Explore the resource management and lifecycle of executors in a Spark application.

[Go to lesson]({{< relref "docs/apache-spark/18-spark-executors" >}}) |
[Watch on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ktg9MWbwPMY) |
[Download the video](https://garage-education.s3.amazonaws.com/spark-course/Ch.04-18-Spark-Executors.mp4)

### Ch.04-19: Spark Data Partitioning

In this live video, we will explain the following topics:
- Learn about data distribution and partitioning in Spark.
- Understand the benefits of partitioning for efficient parallelism and task allocation.
- Explore practical examples of data partitioning and its impact on Spark performance.

[Go to lesson]({{< relref "docs/apache-spark/19-spark-data-partitioning" >}}) |
[Watch on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uAq86RhbNys) |
[Download the video](https://garage-education.s3.amazonaws.com/spark-course/Ch.04-19-Spark-Data-Partitioning.mp4)

### Ch.04-20: Spark Operations

In this live video, we will explain the following topics:
- Understand the two types of Spark operations: transformations and actions.
- Learn about the immutability of Spark operations and its implications.
- Explore examples of transformations and actions, including lazy evaluation and its benefits.

[Go to lesson]({{< relref "docs/apache-spark/20-spark-operations" >}}) |
[Watch on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SDcdnkdiM04) |
[Download the video](https://garage-education.s3.amazonaws.com/spark-course/Ch.04-20-Spark-Operations.mp4)

### Ch.04-21: Transformations Narrow Vs Wide

In this live video, we will explain the following topics:
- Learn about the two types of Spark transformations: narrow and wide.
- Understand the characteristics and benefits of narrow transformations.
- Explore the implications and performance considerations of wide transformations.

[Go to lesson]({{< relref "docs/apache-spark/21-transformations-narrow-vs-wide" >}}) |
[Watch on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=S2RYu-jVXdQ) |
[Download the video](https://garage-education.s3.amazonaws.com/spark-course/Ch.04-21-Transformations-Narrow-Vs-Wide.mp4)

### Ch.04-22: Demo: Immutability In Spark

In this live video, we will explain the following topics:
- Demonstrate the concept of immutability in Spark.
- Understand how Spark ensures immutability and its impact on data processing.
- Explore practical examples of immutable operations in Spark.

[Go to lesson]({{< relref "docs/apache-spark/22-demo-immutability-in-spark" >}}) |
[Watch on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=P0PGbRYHCYQ) |
[Download the video](https://garage-education.s3.amazonaws.com/spark-course/Ch.04-22-Demo-Immutability-In-Spark.mp4)

### Ch.04-23: Demo: RDD Text Manipulation

In this live video, we will explain the following topics:
- Demonstrate text manipulation using RDDs in Spark.
- Learn how to apply transformations and actions on text data.
- Explore practical examples of RDD operations for text processing.

[Go to lesson]({{< relref "docs/apache-spark/23-demo-rdd-text-manipulation" >}}) |
[Watch on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zGvYGJNTfvs) |
[Download the video](https://garage-education.s3.amazonaws.com/spark-course/Ch.04-23-Demo-RDD-Text-Manipulation.mp4)

### Ch.04-24: Demo: GroupByKey Vs. ReduceByKey

In this live video, we will explain the following topics:
- Compare the differences between groupByKey and reduceByKey in Spark.
- Understand the performance implications of each operation.
- Explore practical examples to illustrate the use cases and benefits of both operations.

[Go to lesson]({{< relref "docs/apache-spark/24-demo-groupbykey-vs-reducebykey" >}}) |
[Watch on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WaYbKVNjme0) |
[Download the video](https://garage-education.s3.amazonaws.com/spark-course/Ch.04-24-Demo-GroupByKey-Vs-ReduceByKey.mp4)

### Ch.04-25: Demo: Joining RDDs

In this live video, we will explain the following topics:
- Demonstrate the process of joining RDDs in Spark.
- Learn about the different types of joins supported by Spark.
- Explore practical examples of RDD joins and their applications in data processing.

[Go to lesson]({{< relref "docs/apache-spark/25-demo-joining-rdds" >}}) |
[Watch on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ONekPlyAcuY) |
[Download the video](https://garage-education.s3.amazonaws.com/spark-course/Ch.04-25-Demo-Joining-RDDs.mp4)

{{% /steps %}}

Commit message:

UPDATE: Enabled course pages sharing and added missing lesson

content/docs/apache-spark/_index.md, after:

---
title: Apache Spark
weight: 1
date: 2024-06-01

menu:
  spark:
    name: Apache Spark
    weight: 1
---

{{% steps %}}

### Ch.04-01: Introduction

In this live video, we will explain the following topics:
- Understand the course structure and objectives.
- Familiarize with the course references and resources.
- Learn about the prerequisites needed for the course.

[Go to lesson]({{< relref "docs/apache-spark/01-introduction" >}}) |
[Watch on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=58ULZD86iPo) |
[Download the video](https://garage-education.s3.amazonaws.com/spark-course/Ch.04-01-Introduction.mp4)

### Ch.04-02: Python Vs. Scala

In this live video, we will explain the following topics:
- Compare the differences between Python and Scala in the context of Spark.
- Understand the performance implications of using Python vs. Scala.
- Learn about the advantages and disadvantages of each language for Spark development.

[Go to lesson]({{< relref "docs/apache-spark/02-python-vs-scala" >}}) |
[Watch on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WhgQsVKmlvE)
[Download the video](https://garage-education.s3.amazonaws.com/spark-course/Ch.04-02-python-vs-scala.mp4)

### Ch.04-03: Introduction

In this live video, we will explain the following topics:
- Learn about the origin and development of Apache Spark.
- Understand the key milestones and contributions to the Spark project.
- Explore the unified engine design of Spark for large-scale distributed data processing.

[Go to lesson]({{< relref "docs/apache-spark/03-introduction" >}}) |
[Watch on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MiTOvM85WKk) |
[Download the video](https://garage-education.s3.amazonaws.com/spark-course/Ch.04-03-Introduction.mp4)

### Ch.04-04: About Databricks

In this live video, we will explain the following topics:
- Understand the role of Databricks in the Spark ecosystem.
- Learn about Databricks' contributions to Spark development and the community.
- Explore the capabilities of the Databricks analytics platform.

[Go to lesson]({{< relref "docs/apache-spark/04-about-databricks" >}}) |
[Watch on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDbu1uSkbOc) |
[Download the video](https://garage-education.s3.amazonaws.com/spark-course/Ch.04-04-About-Databricks.mp4)

### Ch.04-05: Spark In The Data Platforms

In this live video, we will explain the following topics:
- Understand the role of Spark in data platforms.
- Learn about the technical components of a data lake.
- Explore how Spark integrates with other big data technologies.

[Go to lesson]({{< relref "docs/apache-spark/05-spark-in-the-data-platforms" >}}) |
[Watch on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pGsAOLJ6nBg) |
[Download the video](https://garage-education.s3.amazonaws.com/spark-course/Ch.04-05-Spark-In-The-Data-Platforms.mp4)

### Ch.04-06: Running Spark

In this live video, we will explain the following topics:
- Learn the different methods for running Spark, including Databricks, local installations, and Docker.
- Understand the steps to set up and run Spark in various environments.
- Explore the benefits of using the Databricks Community Edition for learning and small projects.

[Go to lesson]({{< relref "docs/apache-spark/06-running-spark" >}}) |
[Watch on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4jNGSaBFzZk) |
[Download the video](https://garage-education.s3.amazonaws.com/spark-course/Ch.04-06-Running-Spark.mp4)

### Ch.04-07: Demo: Running Spark on Linux Ubuntu

In this live video, we will explain the following topics:
- Demonstrate the process of installing and running Spark on Linux Ubuntu.
- Understand the configuration steps required for Spark installation on Ubuntu.
- Explore the execution of Spark applications on a Linux environment.

[Go to lesson]({{< relref "docs/apache-spark/07-demo-running-spark-on-linux-ubuntu" >}}) |
[Watch on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Oz_3u_NIS2w) |
[Download the video](https://garage-education.s3.amazonaws.com/spark-course/Ch.04-07-Demo-Running-Spark-on-Linux-Ubuntu.mp4)

### Ch.04-08: Demo: Running Spark on MacOS

In this live video, we will explain the following topics:
- Demonstrate the process of installing and running Spark on macOS.
- Understand the configuration steps required for Spark installation on macOS.
- Explore the execution of Spark applications on a macOS environment.

[Go to lesson]({{< relref "docs/apache-spark/08-demo-running-spark-on-macos" >}}) |
[Watch on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JabcoTV8nJE) |
[Download the video](https://garage-education.s3.amazonaws.com/spark-course/Ch.04-08-Demo-Running-Spark-on-MacOS.mp4)

### Ch.04-09: Demo: Running Spark on Windows

In this live video, we will explain the following topics:
- Demonstrate the process of installing and running Spark on Windows.
- Understand the configuration steps required for Spark installation on Windows.
- Explore the execution of Spark applications on a Windows environment.

[Go to lesson]({{< relref "docs/apache-spark/09-demo-running-spark-on-windows" >}}) |
[Watch on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KYU_yq3ESXE) |
[Download the video](https://garage-education.s3.amazonaws.com/spark-course/Ch.04-09-Demo-Running-Spark-on-Windows.mp4)

### Ch.04-10: Demo Running Spark On Databricks

In this live video, we will explain the following topics:
- Demonstrate the process of running Spark on Databricks.
- Understand the benefits of using Databricks for Spark workloads.
- Explore practical examples of Spark applications running on Databricks.

[Go to lesson]({{< relref "docs/apache-spark/10-demo-running-spark-on-databricks" >}}) |
[Watch on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fU6PZAc8h1I) |
[Download the video](https://garage-education.s3.amazonaws.com/spark-course/Ch.04-10-Demo-Running-Spark-on-Databricks.mp4)

### Ch.04-11: From Map Reduce To Spark

In this live video, we will explain the following topics:
- Understand the basic idea and stages of MapReduce.
- Learn about the limitations of MapReduce and the motivation for Spark.
- Explore the improvements offered by Spark over MapReduce, including in-memory processing and optimized execution.

[Go to lesson]({{< relref "docs/apache-spark/11-from-map-reduce-to-spark" >}}) |
[Watch on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uMf8dCcQoBQ) |
[Download the video](https://garage-education.s3.amazonaws.com/spark-course/Ch.04-11-From-Map-Reduce-To-Spark.mp4)

### Ch.04-12: Spark Characteristics

In this live video, we will explain the following topics:
- Learn about the key characteristics of Spark, including speed, ease of use, modularity, and extensibility.
- Understand how Spark achieves its high performance through hardware utilization, DAG scheduling, and the Tungsten execution engine.
- Explore the benefits of Spark's modular and extensible architecture.

[Go to lesson]({{< relref "docs/apache-spark/12-spark-characteristics" >}}) |
[Watch on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KNHZoKgAqXw) |
[Download the video](https://garage-education.s3.amazonaws.com/spark-course/Ch.04-12-Spark-Characteristics.mp4)

### Ch.04-13: Spark Applications

In this live video, we will explain the following topics:
- Understand the components of a Spark application, including the driver and executors.
- Learn about the execution process of Spark applications in a distributed environment.
- Explore the different languages supported by Spark for application development.

[Go to lesson]({{< relref "docs/apache-spark/13-spark-applications" >}}) |
[Watch on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bvtKXbXfwmw) |
[Download the video](https://garage-education.s3.amazonaws.com/spark-course/Ch.04-13-Spark-Applications.mp4)

### Ch.04-14: Spark Driver

In this live video, we will explain the following topics:
- Learn about the role and key functions of the Spark driver.
- Understand how the driver schedules and distributes tasks to executors.
- Explore the communication and resource management responsibilities of the driver.

[Go to lesson]({{< relref "docs/apache-spark/14-spark-driver" >}}) |
[Watch on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ODcbq13Y1F0) |
[Download the video](https://garage-education.s3.amazonaws.com/spark-course/Ch.04-14-Spark-Driver.mp4)

### Ch.04-15: Spark Session

In this live video, we will explain the following topics:
- Understand the concept and purpose of a SparkSession.
- Learn how to create and use a SparkSession in a Spark application.
- Explore the benefits of SparkSession for simplifying Spark interactions and configurations.

[Go to lesson]({{< relref "docs/apache-spark/15-spark-session" >}}) |
[Watch on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ABomIh_Z0cQ) |
[Download the video](https://garage-education.s3.amazonaws.com/spark-course/Ch.04-15-Spark-Session.mp4)

### Ch.04-16: Spark Cluster Manager

In this live video, we will explain the following topics:
- Understand the role of the cluster manager in Spark applications.
- Learn about the different cluster managers supported by Spark, including Standalone, Hadoop YARN, Apache Mesos, and Kubernetes.
- Explore the resource allocation and management responsibilities of the cluster manager.

[Go to lesson]({{< relref "docs/apache-spark/16-spark-cluster-manager" >}}) |
[Watch on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ew51l2veVxE) |
[Download the video](https://garage-education.s3.amazonaws.com/spark-course/Ch.04-16-Spark-Cluster-Manager.mp4)

### Ch.04-17: Spark Execution Mode

In this live video, we will explain the following topics:
- Learn about the different execution modes in Spark, including cluster mode, client mode, and local mode.
- Understand the differences and use cases for each execution mode.
- Explore how to configure and execute Spark applications in various modes.

[Go to lesson]({{< relref "docs/apache-spark/17-spark-execution-mode" >}}) |
[Watch on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q5EH1rHIdBM) |
[Download the video](https://garage-education.s3.amazonaws.com/spark-course/Ch.04-17-Spark-Execution-Mode.mp4)

### Ch.04-18: Spark Executors

In this live video, we will explain the following topics:
- Understand the role and functions of Spark executors.
- Learn how executors execute tasks and communicate results.
- Explore the resource management and lifecycle of executors in a Spark application.

[Go to lesson]({{< relref "docs/apache-spark/18-spark-executors" >}}) |
[Watch on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ktg9MWbwPMY) |
[Download the video](https://garage-education.s3.amazonaws.com/spark-course/Ch.04-18-Spark-Executors.mp4)

### Ch.04-19: Spark Data Partitioning

In this live video, we will explain the following topics:
- Learn about data distribution and partitioning in Spark.
- Understand the benefits of partitioning for efficient parallelism and task allocation.
- Explore practical examples of data partitioning and its impact on Spark performance.

[Go to lesson]({{< relref "docs/apache-spark/19-spark-data-partitioning" >}}) |
[Watch on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uAq86RhbNys) |
[Download the video](https://garage-education.s3.amazonaws.com/spark-course/Ch.04-19-Spark-Data-Partitioning.mp4)

### Ch.04-20: Spark Operations

In this live video, we will explain the following topics:
- Understand the two types of Spark operations: transformations and actions.
- Learn about the immutability of Spark operations and its implications.
- Explore examples of transformations and actions, including lazy evaluation and its benefits.

[Go to lesson]({{< relref "docs/apache-spark/20-spark-operations" >}}) |
[Watch on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SDcdnkdiM04) |
[Download the video](https://garage-education.s3.amazonaws.com/spark-course/Ch.04-20-Spark-Operations.mp4)

### Ch.04-21: Transformations Narrow Vs Wide

In this live video, we will explain the following topics:
- Learn about the two types of Spark transformations: narrow and wide.
- Understand the characteristics and benefits of narrow transformations.
- Explore the implications and performance considerations of wide transformations.

[Go to lesson]({{< relref "docs/apache-spark/21-transformations-narrow-vs-wide" >}}) |
[Watch on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=S2RYu-jVXdQ) |
[Download the video](https://garage-education.s3.amazonaws.com/spark-course/Ch.04-21-Transformations-Narrow-Vs-Wide.mp4)

### Ch.04-22: Demo: Immutability In Spark

In this live video, we will explain the following topics:
- Demonstrate the concept of immutability in Spark.
- Understand how Spark ensures immutability and its impact on data processing.
- Explore practical examples of immutable operations in Spark.

[Go to lesson]({{< relref "docs/apache-spark/22-demo-immutability-in-spark" >}}) |
[Watch on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=P0PGbRYHCYQ) |
[Download the video](https://garage-education.s3.amazonaws.com/spark-course/Ch.04-22-Demo-Immutability-In-Spark.mp4)

### Ch.04-23: Demo: RDD Text Manipulation

In this live video, we will explain the following topics:
- Demonstrate text manipulation using RDDs in Spark.
- Learn how to apply transformations and actions on text data.
- Explore practical examples of RDD operations for text processing.

[Go to lesson]({{< relref "docs/apache-spark/23-demo-rdd-text-manipulation" >}}) |
[Watch on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zGvYGJNTfvs) |
[Download the video](https://garage-education.s3.amazonaws.com/spark-course/Ch.04-23-Demo-RDD-Text-Manipulation.mp4)

### Ch.04-24: Demo: GroupByKey Vs. ReduceByKey

In this live video, we will explain the following topics:
- Compare the differences between groupByKey and reduceByKey in Spark.
- Understand the performance implications of each operation.
- Explore practical examples to illustrate the use cases and benefits of both operations.

[Go to lesson]({{< relref "docs/apache-spark/24-demo-groupbykey-vs-reducebykey" >}}) |
[Watch on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WaYbKVNjme0) |
[Download the video](https://garage-education.s3.amazonaws.com/spark-course/Ch.04-24-Demo-GroupByKey-Vs-ReduceByKey.mp4)

### Ch.04-25: Demo: Joining RDDs

In this live video, we will explain the following topics:
- Demonstrate the process of joining RDDs in Spark.
- Learn about the different types of joins supported by Spark.
- Explore practical examples of RDD joins and their applications in data processing.

[Go to lesson]({{< relref "docs/apache-spark/25-demo-joining-rdds" >}}) |
[Watch on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ONekPlyAcuY) |
[Download the video](https://garage-education.s3.amazonaws.com/spark-course/Ch.04-25-Demo-Joining-RDDs.mp4)

{{% /steps %}}
